#summary prerequisites for fairy
#sidebar SideBar

= Prerequisites =

<wiki:toc max_depth="3" />

== Supported Platforms ==

 * fairy has been tested on a *Debian GNU/Linux 5.0 (IA32)* cluster.
 * We assume that it also works on the other Linux distributions although we have not tested on them.

== Required Software ==

 * *[http://www.ruby-lang.org/en/ Ruby]* 1.9.1-p430 or greater
<wiki:comment>
 * Following libraries for Ruby:
  * *[http://github.com/keiju/DeepConnect DeepConnect]*: a distributed object system
  * *[http://github.com/keiju/fiber-mon fiber-mon]*: a fiber utility

=== How to Install DeepConnect ===

 * Download tarball from the [http://github.com/keiju/DeepConnect web site] and uncompress it.
 * Put `lib/deep-connect` directory and `lib/deep-connect.rb` into a directory which is contained in `$:` (`$LOAD_PATH`) on Ruby, e.g. `/usr/lib/ruby/1.9.1`.
 * Or add the location where `lib` directory is to `$RUBYLIB` environment variable.

=== How to Install fiber-mon ===

 * Download tarball from the [http://github.com/keiju/fiber-mon web site] and uncompress it.
 * Put `fiber-mon.rb` into a directory which is contained in `$:` (`$LOAD_PATH`) on Ruby, e.g. `/usr/lib/ruby/1.9.1`.
 * Or add the location where `fiber-mon.rb` is to `$RUBYLIB` environment variable.
</wiki:comment>

== Download and Installation ==

You can install fairy with RubyGems, i.e. `gem` command.

{{{
sudo gem install fairy
}}}

That's all, simple!

At the same time, necessary libraries will be installed automatically.
 * *[http://github.com/keiju/DeepConnect DeepConnect]*: a distributed object system
 * *[http://github.com/keiju/fiber-mon fiber-mon]*: a fiber utility

_Note: You need to install fairy to all related hosts (master, node and client)._

== Configuration ==

=== Environment Variables ===

 * Set `$FAIRY_HOME` environment variable to the installation root of fairy. It is usually `/usr/local/lib/ruby/gems/1.9.1/gems/fairy-x.y.z` or `/var/lib/gems/1.9.1/gems/fairy-x.y.z`. (_Replace "x.y.z" to the version number of fairy which you installed._)
 * If you would like to process multi-byte data, for example UTF-8, set `$RUBYOPT` environment variable to `-EUTF-8`.
 * _Note: You need to set these variables on all related hosts (master, node and client)._

=== fairy.conf ===

 * `fairy.conf` is an important configuration file for fairy. It is located in `$FAIRY_HOME/etc`.
 * To edit configuration, first, copy `fairy.conf.tmpl` into `fairy.conf`.
 * Although there are many configuration parameters, at least, set `CONF.MASTER_HOST` to host-name on which you run master server.
 * And also you may need to set `CONF.LOG_FILE`. It specifies the location to where the master server writes logs (default: /tmp/fairy/log).
 * _Note: You need to set these parameters on all related hosts (master, node and client)._
<wiki:comment> * To learn more about fairy.conf, look [xxxxx here].</wiki:comment>

=== Directories ===

 * On the all related hosts (master, node and client), create `/tmp/fairy/tmpbuf` directory to where fairy writes data in the buffer temporarily.
 * On the host on which you run master server, create `/tmp/fairy` directory to where fairy writes logs. If you set `CONF.LOG_FILE` parameter to change the location, you need to create a directory for it instead of `/tmp/fairy`.

-----
Copyright (c) Rakuten, Inc. All Right Reserved